To whom it may concern,

I'm an applied physicist, having recently completed a post-doctoral fellowship at CERN (the European Centre for Particle Physics) in the technology department. This background within an international organisation during the past six years, working on both the development of future equipment upgrades and problem solving of existing equipment I believe makes me a good fit for the position of Graduate Physicist at Cambridge Consulting.

My previous position involved the systematic evaluation of new designs and techniques for the electromagnetic performance of pulsed electromagnets, using predominantly Python routines to analyse data from different simulation tools and laboratory measurements in a consistent manner, and presenting this work at international conferences and to specialist and non-specialist teams within CERN. In particular this sharing of methodology and tools I believe would be well suited to Cambridge Consulting as a way to focus time on novel challenges rather than repeating work colleagues may have already done. An exciting part of proposing performance upgrades was in rapidly acquiring functional familiarity with new technologies and processes to ensure that they were compatible with the magnets operational parameters, which often required novel approaches due to conflicting requirements. Responding to current operational problems involved evaluating various data sources (thermal sensors, electrical monitoring, vacuum gauges) to establish potential patterns in faulty operation. This might involve comparing data of varying time scales (microsecond electronics affecting second scale vacuum responses) and inferred secondary parameters. Using this method we were able to infer that long-term heating of our magnets during accelerator operation was related to electromagnetic losses by the particle beam, and could subsequently map the heating and the thermal distribution from simulations to experimental measurements, and subsequently propose a redesign which reduced power loss in half whilst doubling beam current . This ability to take multiple data types and construct a representative model of a system would mesh with many of your customers requirements, especially as devices and systems become progressively more complex and inferring behaviour from multiple channels becomes a more common source of performance evaluation.

The CosmicPi project (https://cosmicpi.org) of which I'm currently a member is a self-organised project to build a cheap cosmic ray detector, of which we necessarily had to learn to build read-out electronics and interface them with microcontrollers, such as C routines on an Arduino, by ourselves. As part of this, and my work in science outreach, communicative and informative data presentation is a skill I have experimented with to deliver clear and effective information to users. My part in this project is physics analysis and visualisation which resulted from my interest in finding patterns in data - cosmic rays are a science where being able to pull together data from multiple experiments could substantially improve the efficacy of research and part of the project is establishing a shared data framework with other cosmic ray experiments of different designs, and eventually a shared analysis platform. This project demonstrates my self-motivation to work on projects that catch my interest, and develop the skills necessary to bring them to fruitition, be they personal skills in finding partners with motivation and specialist skills that might be lacking, or technical skills to achieve the goals set.

The accompanying CV contains further details of my experience, and I am keen to learn more about the graduate Physicist position at Cambridge Consulting. I look forwards to your response.

Yours sincerely,
Hugo Day
