My skills in technical problem solving, using both software and hardware, give me appropriate skills to design methods of analysing data, taking into account it's source and it's possible limitations, and write the code to do the analysis, using either existing APIs/code or writing my own as appropriate. My broad familiarity with hardware and physical systems means that I can interpret what might be the causes of certain relationships and correlations that might appear in data sets.

I have had experience in software development using Python in a professional context, and C in hobby projects. I have used version control systems for cooperative code development and distributing libraries, using both SVN and Git. I'm comfortable collaborating with larger teams to share expertise, and can focus on individual tasks depending on as is most efficient for the task.

I have extensive experience giving technical presentations to a variety of audiences, from experts in a field, to general engineering teams to the general public in an understandable, engaging manner. I appreciate concise reports and presentations and strive to write understandable, frank reports and papers. I've published a number of international conference publications during my professional career.

I've also substantial experience in event organisation and planning due to partaking in science outreach activities during the past 7 years, including science festivals, comedy shows and humanitarian hackathons. Roles I've taken have included team mentors, sourcing sponsors, logistics and site management.


CERN, Geneva, Switzerland Senior Research Fellow July 2013 - June 2016
Worked in the fast pulsed systems group of the technology department on various topics related to the LHC injection kicker magnets, focused on electromagnetic interactions between the particle beam and the electromagnet. Worked extensively with standard EM software (HFSS, CST:MWS, pSpice,Cadence) and bench RF test stands (VNAs). Worked as part of a mixed team of physicists, engineers and technicians to as part of a multi-objective upgrade project.
Key Achievements:
- Proposed an upgrade to EM performance of magnet which was subsequently applied to all kicker magnets during 2013 maintenance shutdown
- Lead study of HV behaviour of cathode triple junction as applied to LHC kicker magnet geometry
- Implemented an library of analysis tools for measurements and simulations in Python for transparency and reuse

CERN, Geneva, Switzerland Doctoral Student February 2010 - January 2013
Examining the electromagnetic interactions between charged particle beams and particle accelerator components using simulation suites and bench-top measurements techniques. Focused on normal conducting fast pulsed electromagnets and collimators (robust beam protection equipment) necessitating dealing with competing design requirements to find optimal solutions.
Key Achievements:
- Lead simulation and measurement campaign of beam coupling impedance of the LHC injection magnets, collaborating with colleagues in other departments at CERN and in other research institutes in the UK and Germany
- Devised an analysis technique to measure beam impedance in asymmetric structures
- Carried out a systematic review of impedance reduction techniques, their advantages/disadvantages and implementation

Teaching Assistant September 2010 - January 2011
Teaching assistant for undergraduate courses (Programming in C).

Doctor of Philosophy September 2009 - June 2013
Thesis title: "Measurements and Simulations of Impedance Reduction Techniques in Particle Accelerators"

MPhys Physics Classification: 1st Class October 2005 - July 2009

A-Levels. Physics, Mathematics, Chemistry grade A, History grade B
